Mechanical Concepts for Azu

Gathering items is a simple task for players. They go to locations and find random items to collect. Nodes that have Materials on them.

Every gathering material has some tag or multiple tags associated with them. Once gathered they can then be used for the crafting process.

Items can also be made on the fly by Trusted Players running events and DMs these are custom named and iconed items with self determined tags on creation. They can have lore significance or just be basic items

Example A
Someone does a mission to save some kids from some Flan. As a reward the kids give them a set of wooden figures. The set of wooden figures would be a custom item that is given to the players. The DM decides that the figures as a crafting material have the Willsave Tag associated with it.

This makes it so every item in the game can be used as crafting materials for any project they want.

Example B
Someone defeats an Adamantoise Turtle. They get the shell as a reward. That shell could be worth the equivalent of Physical protection 3 Tag. So when using it in a crafting state they could add 3 tags of Physical defense to the crafted materials tag total. Making for a really good E rank Shield or heavy armor.


Farmer Materials
Herbs

Veggietables




Herbalist Materials

Herbs

Roots

Flowers




Healing Herbs

Harming Herbs

Poison Root

Antidote Root

Paralysis Flower

Stimulant Flower




Logger Materials

Wood

Food




Name- Gross Wooden Doll
Type- Wood
Tag- Poison 1

Name- maple Log x2
Type- Wood
Tag- Physical Defense 1

Name- Iron Ore x 1
Type metal
Sub Type Iron
Tag- Physical defense x1

Craft a Staff requires 3 Wood + 1 Metal/Iron E rank Staff
3 Tags it can have

Maple and the doll and the Iron
That fulfills the 3 wood requirement and 1 iron
And it gives the staff
Poison 1 and Physical defense 3

It can only have 3 tags.
Guarantee 2 physical defense
Last tag is a coin flip between Poison and physical defense






Miner Materials
Gems-

Metals-

Crystal-


Iron-  

Silver- 

Gold- 

Obsidian-

Mithril- 

Adamantite-

Wind Ore-

Fire Ore-

Lightning Ore- 

Water Ore- 

Earth Ore- 





Materia Materials

Red //summons

Blue // Spell Enhancements  (MP reduction, Cooldown Reduction)

Yellow // Job Abilities

Green // Magic Spells

Purple // Independent (MP Up, HP Up)

Hunter Materials

Monster Parts

